Hey, welcome back. This is start of week
three and I wanted to get you mentally
prepared for what's coming at you this
week. Uh this I feel this week is going
to be the toughest part of this program
and it's important to talk about a few
challenges you're going to face and how
to how to deal with them. So let's let's
go through that.
So all right, let's just acknowledge up
front this week will be hard because
it's a step up, right? you've been
running uh learning about theory a bit
and now you start working with these
large language models uh small language
models for the most part at the
beginning but it's not going to be easy.
So let's let's look at a few things that
make this challenging.
So first of all I want to be clear that
we try to make this program very
accessible for everyone. uh however we
are working with large language models
or language models and even the smallest
ones that we'll work with are going to
be like 1 billion parameter models and I
don't know about you but to me even that
was a big step up from anything else I
had done in my previous projects we
worked with image classification even uh
NLP projects with text classification
working with transformer based
architectures but nothing came as close
in size as these models even the
smallest ones we're going to be using
it's going to be tough and to work in
collab even we tried to make it work for
our own team and it just wasn't giving
us the the reliable consistent
performance that uh experience that you
would want to have in serious projects.
So uh you can use collab but I'm just
going to say that you probably want to
at least upgrade to the the paid version
of it and try to make that work because
otherwise you're going to face all kinds
of issues going through this program.
And one of the one of the things that
happens in uh when you are learning
these kinds of technologies is that
every little thing every little thing
that annoys you, frustrates you, starts
adding up. And uh especially you're
going to face all all of those issues
this week. And so just know that having
something that is consistently working
for you, if you run some job that's
going to take a few hours that it
doesn't fail in the middle of it, these
kinds of things are going to matter uh
to to have success in this program. And
so just just want to be clear that while
you may be able to work in uh uh get
this project or this program done with
Google Collab uh your experience
probably is not going to be as as good
as you would want to be in a serious
projects. So maybe you want to upgrade
to the the paid version not not just
stay on the free tier there.
Um the the the key point one of the key
points I wanted to make here is we we
chose a lot of the most mature packages
libraries tools to use. Having said
that, as you know, AI is rapidly
advancing and it's a very fast evolving
field and these these tools platforms
are still evolving and maturing and
because of that, you're going to face
problems. Okay? Uh if you're like me,
you're probably thinking, "Oh, I I'm
already late to the party. I should be I
should have learned this years ago." But
I'm telling you, you're not late. You're
you're you're early at least in the
adoption phase of AI. And uh that means
a lot of the tools technologies just
don't work well. uh you will have
problems where if you're working on a
Mac uh machine uh some things won't work
or if you're working on Windows well god
bless you uh Linux might be better but
again you know it's it's just no no
guarantees that you're going to have uh
no trouble you know that when you're
working with these packages so just be
aware of it that you will face some
issues along the way and so the key
point I would say here the the skill
you're going to have to master uh you're
going to have to build this muscle
memory of troubleshooting anytime you
face uh bugs, issues, you're going to
just have to work through it. Okay? Uh
and reading the docs is one of the most
boring but fundamental skills you're
going to have to pick up as a LLM or AI
engineer. And this is this is one of
those things that I'm telling you u is
is part of the job. When you run into a
bug, when you run into an issue, uh the
tendency is to think like, oh, I did
something wrong. Uh but most of the
time, this is what uh every engineer
faces every single day. I I'm I I'm
having to troubleshoot like 10 issues
every single day and my work either you
know googling for that or asking GBD or
claude and getting help from it and
sometimes because AI is such a new field
even you don't get help there uh
sometimes you get misleading information
so you just going to have to work
through that okay it's it's important
skill to build as you go through this
program
okay uh baselines were brilliant so I
want to talk a little bit about this
whole LLM fine-tuning LLM engineering uh
project work, right? Uh your LLM,
working with LLMs and fine-tuning them,
training them is one of the hardest
things you uh probably you will have
done at this point if you once you
engage in that. And you're going to feel
like, oh, if this is going isn't
working, let me add some more
complexity. Let me work with a bigger
model. Let me build a very custom uh
training logic or loss function to solve
this problem. And I'm going to tell you
resist that temptation. Uh most likely
you have some basic issue uh with your
with your uh with your work and there's
a bug or something and that's causing
your model to not perform well. uh
because of this I say like establish
baselines like you know work with some
uh simplest model that you can get and
also uh the easiest pipeline you can
build to get evaluation done like start
with a non-finetune model build some uh
baseline evaluation and get some metrics
right and after that only after that you
start looking at how can I improve upon
that uh this is something that I see
missing quite a bit everywhere uh in
industry uh even in educational programs
I see like directly people will jump
into oh I'm going to take this problem
I'm going to solve this and they're not
really proving that they have actually
advanced uh by by doing that complex
work and so let's say you take a project
where you're uh you know you're in
project for module one maybe you pick
some problem use case and you say I'm
going to build um you know solve using
fine-tuning well you're going to have to
prove that that fine-tuning was
necessary even right or that the
finetuning you did actually helped
because let's Say you're you're doing
it, you know, one of the projects we
considered was uh uh Docker. So you you
pass in uh the what you want to get done
using Docker in plain English and it
will come back to you with the Docker
command to use. Uh you see a lot of
people doing SQL for example text to
SQL. Well, okay, you know what? If you
had directly just used an OpenAI
frontier model or cloud frontier model,
what do you get? uh it's important to
establish those baselines and then then
only then you're going to try to build
something that is open weights and
meeting or surpassing that baseline.
Okay, just just know know that that's an
important part. Don't just jump directly
into fine-tuning and then say yeah the
the results look good and so this must
be good. Now you got to prove that you
actually done something meaningful.
Okay. All right. This is very where I
say know when to fine-tune. Again, it's
going to be important for you not to get
too attached to the technology. Right?
Your goal is not to come out saying,
"Oh, I fine-tuned a large language
model." Uh, you have to kind of come out
thinking, "I know when to do it. I know
how to do it, and I know the successful
uh use cases where this might apply and
also where I should not be using
fine-tuning." It's important that you
know that distinction. Uh again, uh if
you're working in a industry project,
don't sign your yourself up for
something that will set you for for
failure, right? You always have to make
sure that you will be able to deliver
what you're promising and fine-tuning an
LLM uh is is a tough thing to do and
again it's going to take a lot of budget
in indust industry projects and a lot of
time uh your time your team's time and
so know when to fine-tune. I hope that
you come out of this program knowing
exactly that difference when to when to
use LM fine when not to do it and all
the elements that are required to be a
successful LM engineer. Okay, as I said,
done right. Uh it's it's important to
make that distinction. But when you do
pick up that skill, uh it's very
rewarding, right? This will what will
differentiate you from others uh who
maybe just watch videos or uh you know
uh take some basic tutorials, read
through some basic tutorials uh online.
Uh the ones who do the the real work,
they they they make a difference, right?
So uh it's a I I want to kind of tell
you a little bit about what happens in
these certification programs or online
uh programs. uh what is happening is
usually the instructor is putting a lot
of work in putting the curriculum
together and I uh in this program too we
have actually a team of engineers doing
this and we face all kinds of problems
all kinds of challenges while working on
example projects code examples that we
share with you the videos we create
everything is very very hard to do but
what happens is all those failed
attempts are put on the side and what
gets put in front of you are the
successful things right and then we say
do this and if you follow just exactly
the codes that we gave you, the data set
that we give give you, everything just
seems to go well. And the way I'm going
to describe this to you is is this and I
I really want you to hear this. It's
important. Um, imagine like you know
there's there's a forest, right? And
there's like hidden dangers all through
the forest. What's happening in these
programs when you take some of these
certification or uh educational uh
programs is the instructor has done all
the hard work of traversing navigating
through the the forest uh mapping out
everything there and they know all where
the hidden dangers are and what they
then do is basically uh chart out uh the
happy path through it right point A to
point B how do we go from A to B without
running into problems and that is the
curriculum for the program and that's
that's what gets put in front of you and
though you you follow the steps that the
instructor gives you and you go from A
to B and you say here I have a project
done and I I've learned this
successfully and what you don't know is
in real world projects when you have to
do your own thing you're going to you
can't just follow that exact path no two
projects are exactly identical you're
going to have to do something different
and the moment you get off that path
that the instructor gave you you're
going to hit into all those hidden
dangers that I the other instructor had
already like known but you don't know
about and that's when reality hits So
that is what will happen if you don't
explore things yourself. Okay. This is
why in our certification programs we
don't give you exactly what we want you
to do. Right? It's not a do this
project. It's like pick your own data
set. Uh pick your own problem. Uh these
are the functional requirements we need
from you but do your own thing. Uh
that's the there's a reason why we want
you to go through your own projects
because that means that's where you'll
face the real problems. Okay. So uh yeah
know know that what you will learn here
is really up to you right you have to
explore uh it's it's very important to
face those those issues those bugs them
yourself uh do as much exploration as
you can uh in the process you will learn
okay so uh three key takeaways I want
you to uh get from this video one it's
hard and that's normal uh just just know
that if you're facing any problems
that's not a sign of failure that maybe
you're not really up to the task maybe
this is not for you just know that
everyone goes through it. Everyone uh
including us uh everyone has gone
through that phase and we just have to
fight through it. And so uh you got to
be willing to step outside your comfort
zone. One of the things I tell my team
all the time actually is get comfortable
being uncomfortable, right? You have to
face that discomfort, that feeling of I
don't know how to do this and I'm not
sure I'm going to be able to figure out
that that kind of doubt. If you face
that doubt when you're doing any task,
that's when you're really pushing
yourself outside that comfort zone. So
embrace embrace that discomfort. It's
important that you do that and don't
give up. Right? So as you go through
this week three, week four and the rest
of the program, you're going to face all
kinds of problems. Um it's it's we're
just getting started with the harder
part of this program. And so it's
important that you stick through it. And
if you if you do that, again, I'm
telling you, it's a very important skill
these days that if u if I'm if I were
hiring for AI engineers, ML engineers,
uh LLM engineers, I would want them to
have gone through the pain. And when I
interview them, I want to feel hear that
pain from them. Like I want to see that
they've actually gone through that that
trouble of troubleshooting or facing the
bugs, resolving them. And that pain that
you see on someone's face when they've
gone through that, I I want to make sure
that you know you know the reality of
these things and only then uh you have
that real experience. Okay? So don't
give up. Fight through it and uh you
will succeed. So that's what I wanted to
cover. Again, this is week three uh the
the start of the the hard part of the
program and it's only going to get worse
through the rest of the program. So
again, I don't want to sound negative,
but this is where the real learning
happens. And I I hope you continue and
finish the program and fight through it.
All right, take care. Bye.